Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on this continent, a new nation,
conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.

Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived
and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come
to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives
that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.

But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate—we can not consecrate—we can not hallow—this ground.
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power
to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can
never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the
unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us
to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take
increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion—that we
here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God,
shall have a new birth of freedom—and that government of the people, by the people, for the
people, shall not perish from the earth.

Abraham Lincoln

November 19, 1863.

 
Footnotes 

1 The Civil War has gone by a variety of different names throughout the years. One popular name
 in the postwar South was “The War Between the States.” Other names employed by Southerners
 include “The War for Southern Independence” and “The War of Separation”; in the North popular
 names included “The War for the Union” and “The War of the Rebellion.” The most common and
 lasting name, however, has always been “The Civil War,” the name used by Lincoln, Davis, Lee,
 and Grant during the war and by most Americans ever since.

 — Zachary, Owl Eyes Editor 
2 This short, declarative sentence contains evocative visual imagery that powerfully conveys the
 magnitude of the Battle of Gettysburg. Lincoln’s use of a passive verb construction here also
 emphasizes the power of the place—Lincoln conveys that something brought them all to
 Gettysburg. Years later, Lincoln would use this notion of a divine plan, or fate, in his second
 inaugural address to portray the Civil War as an inevitable confrontation.

 — Wesley, Owl Eyes Editor 
3 The United States was founded in 1776 on principles of democracy and freedom that were
 revolutionary for the time. Lincoln states that the Civil War is the first true test of whether
 or not a country founded on liberty and democracy is capable of surviving. His use of the word
 “conceived” emphasizes the singularity of the country’s origin and employs a birth metaphor
 that returns at the end of the speech.

 — Wesley, Owl Eyes Editor 
4 The first hostilities in the American Civil War took place in April, 1861, with the Confederate
 army’s attack on the US Army base of Fort Sumter in South Carolina. When Lincoln delivered the
 Gettysburg Address two years later, the tide of the war was turning in favor of the Union. The
 Confederate army under General Robert E. Lee had recently lost the Battle of Gettysburg, ending
 their northern advance and forcing them to retreat.

